[Add-ins] Add delegate access article (#522)
OfficeDev/outlook-dev-docs: docs/add-ins/delegate-access.md

---
title: Enable an Outlook add-in to support delegate access scenarios
description: Briefly describes delegate access and discusses how to configure add-in support.
ms.topic: article
ms.date: 02/11/2019
localization_priority: Normal
---

> # How to enable delegate access scenarios in an Outlook add-in (preview)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Enable delegate access scenarios in an Outlook add-in (preview)
```

There are a few steps you should follow to configure your Outlook add-in to support delegate access. These include enabling the `SupportsSharedFolders` property in the manifest and using the `SharedProperties` object.

## What is delegate access?

Consider a business setting where an executive enables their assistant to manage the executive's mail and calendar. Depending on the level of access, the assistant or delegate can respond on the mailbox owner's behalf and create new appointments, among other tasks. To learn more about delegate access and how to give delegates permission, see [Allow someone else to manage your mail and calendar](https://support.office.com/article/allow-someone-else-to-manage-your-mail-and-calendar-41c40c04-3bd1-4d22-963a-28eafec25926).

> ## Supported permissions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Supported permissions for delegate access
```

> You should know which delegate permissions the JavaScript for Office API supports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following table describes the delegate permissions the JavaScript for Office API supports.
```

Author: @kbrandl: Does that mean we should scrub instances throughout the documentation where it says "JavaScript API for Office" e.g., [JavaScript API for Office](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/office/dev/add-ins/reference/javascript-api-for-office) article?

Reviewer 2: @ElizabethSamuel-MSFT good question. I don't think we need to scrub the docs, as either term -- "JavaScript API for Office" or "Office JavaScript API" -- is fine. i.e., they're both correct, although I prefer using the second term both because it's less formal sounding and also because it 'mentally maps' to "Office JS APIs", the shorthand name often ascribed to the APIs.

So feel free to change "JavaScript for Office API" to either  "JavaScript API for Office" or "Office JavaScript API" here.

> **Table 1 Supported permissions for delegate access**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
You don't really need the table label if you precede it with the paragraph describing the table.

|Permission|Value|Description|Bit position<br>from the right|
|---|:---:|---|:---:|
|Read|1|Can read items.|1|
|Write|2|Can create items.|2|
|DeleteOwn|4|Can delete only the items they created.|3|
|DeleteAll|8|Can delete any items.|4|
|EditOwn|16|Can edit only the items they created.|5|
|EditAll|32|Can edit any items.|6|

> [!NOTE]
> Using the API, you can only get existing delegate permissions.

> Also, the [DelegatePermissions](/javascript/api/outlook/office.mailboxenums.delegatepermissions) object is implemented using a bit mask to indicate all the delegate's permissions. This means that each position represents a particular permission and if it is set to `1` (i.e., it's on) then the delegate has the respective permission. For example, if the second bit from the right is `1`, then the delegate has **Write** permission. You can see an example of how to check for a specific permission in the [Use in messages and appointments for compose and read modes](#use-in-messages-and-appointments-for-compose-and-read-modes) section later in this article.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [DelegatePermissions](/javascript/api/outlook/office.mailboxenums.delegatepermissions) object is implemented using a bit mask to indicate all the delegate's permissions. This means that each position represents a particular permission and if it's set to `1` (i.e., it's on) then the delegate has the respective permission. For example, if the second bit from the right is `1`, then the delegate has **Write** permission. You can see an example of how to check for a specific permission in the [Use in messages and appointments for compose and read modes](#use-in-messages-and-appointments-for-compose-and-read-modes) section later in this article.
```

Reviewer: Excellent catches, all.

## Configure the manifest

You should set the [SupportsSharedFolders](/office/dev/add-ins/reference/manifest/supportssharedfolders) element to `true` under the parent element `DesktopFormFactor` so that your add-in is available in delegate access scenarios.

> [!IMPORTANT]

> > The `SupportsSharedFolders` element is only available in the [Outlook add-ins preview requirement set](/office/dev/add-ins/reference/objectmodel/preview-requirement-set/outlook-requirement-set-preview) against Exchange Online.

Reviewer: Confusing preposition (for me, anyway!) I don't know what this means: "The element is only available against Exchange Online." Would it help to insert a verb action into this sentence to clarify? "The element is only available to run against Exchange Online" or whatever verb makes sense.

Reviewer 2: I don't think this note is technically accurate, as currently written. A requirement set defines a set of APIs (objects, methods, properties, etc.) but manifest elements are not part of any specific requirement set. So, to say that "[element X] is only available in [requirement set Y]" is not correct. -- that's not how things work.

Suggest doing the following:

- add a note (`[!IMPORTRANT]`) immediately following the intro paragraph of this article to call out the fact that "Delegate access for Outlook add-ins is currently in preview and only supported against Exchange Online. Delegate access APIs should not yet be used in production environments." 
- revise this note here in the "Configure a manifest" section to read "Because delegate access for Outlook add-ins is currently in preview, add-ins that use the `SupportSharedFolders` element cannot be published to AppSource or deployed via centralized deployment."

>

> > Add-ins that use this element cannot be published to AppSource or deployed via centralized deployment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Add-ins that use the `SupportsSharedFolders` element cannot be published to AppSource or deployed via centralized deployment.
```

The following example shows the `SupportsSharedFolders` element set to `true` in a section of the manifest.

```XML
<DesktopFormFactor>
  <FunctionFile resid="residDesktopFuncUrl" />
  <SupportsSharedFolders>true</SupportsSharedFolders>
  <ExtensionPoint xsi:type="PrimaryCommandSurface">

>     <!-- information about this extension point -->

Reviewer: Is this message supposed to be here?

  </ExtensionPoint>
</DesktopFormFactor>
```

> ## Use in messages and appointments for compose and read modes

Reviewer 2: Suggest re-titling this section -> Get delegate permissions

Rationale behind this suggested revision:
- section title should describe the task that the section addresses (i.e., "what" the reader is learning how to do -- not "how" that task is done)

If the information that you currently have in the section title (i.e., "Use in messages and appointments for compose and read modes") is important for the reader to know, then you should incorporate it into the paragraph itself. For example, perhaps by making the first sentence read:
-> 
In message compose, message read, appointment compose, or appointment read mode, you can get the item's shared properties by calling the [item.getSharedPropertiesAsync](/office/dev/add-ins/reference/objectmodel/preview-requirement-set/office.context.mailbox.item#getsharedpropertiesasyncoptions-callback) method.

You can get the item's shared properties by calling the [item.getSharedPropertiesAsync](/office/dev/add-ins/reference/objectmodel/preview-requirement-set/office.context.mailbox.item#getsharedpropertiesasyncoptions-callback) method. This returns a [SharedProperties](/javascript/api/outlook/office.sharedproperties) object that currently provides the delegate's permissions, the owner's email address, and the REST URL of the owner's mailbox.

The following example shows how to get an item's shared properties and check if the delegate has **Write** permission.

```js
Office.context.mailbox.item.getSharedPropertiesAsync(callback);

function callback (asyncResult) {
  var sharedProperties = asyncResult.value;

  // Check if user is a delegate before proceeding.
  if (sharedProperties != null) {
    console.log(JSON.stringify(sharedProperties));

    var delegatePermissions = sharedProperties.delegatePermissions;

    // Determine if user can do the expected action.
    // E.g., do they have Write permission?
    if ((delegatePermissions & MailboxEnums.Write) != 0 ) {
      // Expected action...
    }
  }
}
```

> ## Limitations and restrictions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Delegate access limitations and restrictions
```

> ## Limitations and restrictions

Reviewer 2: Suggest removing this section ("Limitations and restrictions"), as the information it contains is redundant with information already stated previously in Notes within the article.

> At present, delegate access is only available in the [Outlook add-ins preview requirement set](/office/dev/add-ins/reference/objectmodel/preview-requirement-set/outlook-requirement-set-preview) against Exchange Online. Add-ins that use the `SupportsSharedFolders` element in their manifest cannot be published to AppSource or deployed via centralized deployment as the delegate access feature APIs should not be used in production environments yet.

Reviewer: Again, I don't understand what this means "against Exchange Online."  Does it makes sense to say "At present, delegate access is only available to run against Exchange Online?"
